index.md, before:

---
layout: term
title: brandon's website
cmd: cat about.md
---

# Brandon L. Barker, PhD

Welcome to Brandon's homepage, the best stop on the information superhighway!

- Metropolis Postdoctoral Fellow
- Computational Physics and Methods
- Center for Theoretical Astrophysics
- Los Alamos National Laboratory
- PhD, Astronomy and Astrophysics and Computational Mathematics, Sciences, and Engineering

* * *

## About Me
I am a computational astrophysicist focused on understanding the underlying physics 
of massive astrophysical explosions -- core-collapse supernovae and neutron star mergers -- as
well as the origins of the elements. I am greatly interested in the development and 
implementation of high-order accurate numerical methods in these contexts.
Currently, I am a Metropolis computational physics postdoctoral fellow at Los Alamos National Laboratory 
working primarily with Jonah Miller and Matt Mumpower.
My work now focuses of modeling collapsars to understand the impacts of neutrino transport and the
prospects for heavy element nucleosynthesis.

Previously I was a NSF Graduate Research Fellow at Michigan State University working with Sean Couch. 
My work involves high-fidelity modeling of core-collapse supernovae and related phenomena and the 
implementation of high-order numerical methods. Broadly, I am interested in numerical relativity, 
high-order numerical methods, multi-physics problems, and the development of open-source scientific software. 

Outside of work, I enjoy backpacking, nature photography, cooking, perfecting my coffee brew, 
and writing less useful code.

<!---
I'm a [programmer](#code), a computer enthusiast, an occasional
[artist](/portfolio), and a ["neural oscillator of uncertain
significance"][oscillator], operating out of the San Francisco Exclusion Zone. I
like writing the kind of software a lot of people don't think
about too often these days: low-level systems software, operating systems, and
infrastructure.

Professionally, I'm [writing software](/new-years-and-new-beginnings) for [the cloud computer] at [Oxide Computer Company].
Previously, I worked on open source networking infrastructure for cloud-native
applications at [buoyant.io](https://buoyant.io).

Outside of work, I like running, being outside, cooking, and writing [weirder, less useful software](#code).

[the cloud computer]: https://oxide.computer/blog/the-cloud-computer
[Oxide Computer Company]: https://oxide.computer/
-->
* * *

## Research
Core-collapse supernovae are some of the most interesting events in the universe (though I may be biased on this!). 
They contain a wealth of fundamental physics and allow us to probe environments far grander than those accessible to 
Terrestrial labs in order to understand how matter behaves in the most extreme environments. They are responsible 
for the synthesis of many of the elements up to iron, and possibly beyond, and drive the evolution of galaxies. 
Understanding these phenomena requires a partnership of observational, theoretical, and numerical efforts. 
My work lies in the theoretical study of these events using the most advanced computers available and the 
exploration of how to use modern theory to understand observations. I develop open source scientific software 
to model the central engines of these phenomena and explore how, 
through modern numerical methods and software design, we can improve these models.
* * *

## Resources
My success, however defined, has only been possible because of the support provided to me.
Whenever possible, I try to share my [resources](resources) for others to benefit from.

## Code

Software is a key piece of the scientific infrastructure. By open sourcing software, it may become a tool for the community. 
The software listed here is a mix of codes that I’ve used and developed. Also see my [GitHub](https://github.com/astrobarker).

+ **[Phoebus][phoebus]: Performance Portable GRRMHD**

  `Phoebus` is a general relativistic neutrino radiation magnetohydrodynamics code built on the adaptive mesh refinement library `Parthenon`. 
  It supports a general equation of state, several radiation transport algorithms, and analytic and prescribed metrics.

+ **[Parthenon][parthenon]: Performance Portable Block-Based Adaptive Mesh Refinement**

  `Parthenon` is a block-structured adaptive mesh refinement library. It is built on [Kokkos], the hardware-agnostic library for on-node parallelism, 
  to provide performance-portable, distributed, adaptive mesh refinement for downstream applications.

+ **[Singularity-eos][singularity-eos]: A Performance Portable Equation of State Library**

  `Singularity-eos` is a performance-portable equation of state library. It leverages on-node parallelism on heterogeneous architectures. 
  At present, Singularity-eos supports over ten equations of state for both terrestrial and astrophysical applications.

+ **[thornado][thornado]: Discontinuous Galerkin Methods for Supernovae**

  `Thornado` is a neutrino radiation hydrodynamics code built on high-order discontinuous Galerkin methods. 
  It leverages the adaptive mesh refinement library [AMReX](https://amrex-codes.github.io/amrex/) and supports a general equation of state.

+ **[sordine][sordine]: A Hydro Code Verification Suite**

  `sordine` is a (rad-)hydro code verification suite that I am expanding as needed. It includes, specifically, 
  self-similar solutions for Sedov-Taylor blast waves of all families.

+ **[mplcolors][mplcolors]: A Command Line and Python Package Tool for Color Exploration**

  `mplcolors` is a command line and Python 3.x package tool for color exploration. 
  It supports displaying matplotlib colors and colorbars, as well as color complements, triads, and tetrads, in the command line. 
  The same utilities are available as an importable package.

[phoebus]: https://github.com/lanl/phoebus
[parthenon]: https://github.com/parthenon-hpc-lab/parthenon
[singularity-eos]: https://github.com/lanl/singularity-eos
[thornado]: https://github.com/endeve/thornado
[sordine]: https://github.com/astrobarker/sistrum
[mplcolors]: https://github.com/astrobarker/mplcolors
[kokkos]: https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos

* * *

## Outreach

Throughout my career I have worked to maintain an involvement in my community. 
This has made for some of the most enriching moments of my education. 
Find out about the [outreach initiatives][outreach] I have been involved in!

* * *

## Elsewhere

A few other corners of the Internet where you can find me include:

+ code on <a class = "dir" href="https://github.com/astrobarker">github</a>
+ posts on <a class = "dir" href = "https://twitter.com/astrobarker">twitter</a>
  and on <a class = "dir" href = "https://bsky.app/profile/astrobarker.bsky.social">Bluesky</a>
+ professionally can be found on <a class = "dir" href = "https://www.linkedin.com/in/brandon-barker-551426116/">LinkedIn</a>

### Contact

+ e-mail:<!--  barker (AT) lanl (DOT) gov or --> `barker (AT) lanl (DOT) gov`

* * *

Commit message:

some research and other text

index.md, after:

---
layout: term
title: brandon's website
cmd: cat about.md
---

# Brandon L. Barker, PhD

Welcome to homepage of Brandon L. Barker, PhD -- the best stop on the information superhighway!
My current state:

- Metropolis Postdoctoral Fellow
- Computational Physics and Methods
- Center for Theoretical Astrophysics
- Los Alamos National Laboratory
- PhD, Astronomy and Astrophysics and Computational Mathematics, Sciences, and Engineering

Here you can find out more [about me](#about-me) and my [research](#research), [resources](resources) I
have produced, [code](#code) I have worked on, and more.

* * *

## About Me
I am a computational astrophysicist focused on understanding the underlying physics 
of massive astrophysical explosions -- core-collapse supernovae and neutron star mergers -- as
well as the origins of the elements. I am greatly interested in the development and 
implementation of high-order accurate numerical methods in these contexts.
Currently, I am a Metropolis computational physics postdoctoral fellow at Los Alamos National Laboratory 
working primarily with Jonah Miller and Matt Mumpower.
My work now focuses of modeling collapsars to understand the impacts of neutrino transport and the
prospects for heavy element nucleosynthesis.
Broadly, I am interested in numerical relativity, 
numerical methods, multi-physics problems, and the development of open-source scientific software. 

Previously I was a NSF Graduate Research Fellow at Michigan State University working with Sean Couch. 
My work PhD involved high-fidelity modeling of core-collapse supernovae and connecting neutrino-driven 
models to observations.
 

Outside of work, I enjoy backpacking, nature photography, cooking, perfecting my coffee brew, 
and writing less useful code.

* * *

## Research
Core-collapse supernovae are some of the most interesting events in the universe (though I may be biased on this!). 
They contain a wealth of fundamental physics and allow us to probe environments far grander than those accessible to 
Terrestrial labs in order to understand how matter behaves in the most extreme environments. They are responsible 
for the synthesis of many of the elements up to iron, and possibly beyond, and drive the evolution of galaxies. 
Understanding these phenomena requires a partnership of observational, theoretical, and numerical efforts. 
My work lies in the theoretical study of these events using the most advanced computers available and the 
exploration of how to use modern theory to understand observations. I develop open source scientific software 
to model the central engines of these phenomena and explore how, 
through modern numerical methods and software design, we can improve these models.
* * *

## Resources
My success, however defined, has only been possible because of the support provided to me.
Whenever possible, I try to share my [resources](resources) for others to benefit from.

## Code

Software is a key piece of the scientific infrastructure. By open sourcing software, it may become a tool for the community. 
The software listed here is a mix of codes that I’ve used and developed. Also see my [GitHub](https://github.com/astrobarker).

+ **[Phoebus][phoebus]: Performance Portable GRRMHD**

  `Phoebus` is a general relativistic neutrino radiation magnetohydrodynamics code built on the adaptive mesh refinement library `Parthenon`. 
  It supports a general equation of state, several radiation transport algorithms, and analytic and prescribed metrics.

+ **[Parthenon][parthenon]: Performance Portable Block-Based Adaptive Mesh Refinement**

  `Parthenon` is a block-structured adaptive mesh refinement library. It is built on [Kokkos], the hardware-agnostic library for on-node parallelism, 
  to provide performance-portable, distributed, adaptive mesh refinement for downstream applications.

+ **[Singularity-eos][singularity-eos]: A Performance Portable Equation of State Library**

  `Singularity-eos` is a performance-portable equation of state library. It leverages on-node parallelism on heterogeneous architectures. 
  At present, Singularity-eos supports over ten equations of state for both terrestrial and astrophysical applications.

+ **[thornado][thornado]: Discontinuous Galerkin Methods for Supernovae**

  `Thornado` is a neutrino radiation hydrodynamics code built on high-order discontinuous Galerkin methods. 
  It leverages the adaptive mesh refinement library [AMReX](https://amrex-codes.github.io/amrex/) and supports a general equation of state.

+ **[sordine][sordine]: A Hydro Code Verification Suite**

  `sordine` is a (rad-)hydro code verification suite that I am expanding as needed. It includes, specifically, 
  self-similar solutions for Sedov-Taylor blast waves of all families.

+ **[mplcolors][mplcolors]: A Command Line and Python Package Tool for Color Exploration**

  `mplcolors` is a command line and Python 3.x package tool for color exploration. 
  It supports displaying matplotlib colors and colorbars, as well as color complements, triads, and tetrads, in the command line. 
  The same utilities are available as an importable package.

[phoebus]: https://github.com/lanl/phoebus
[parthenon]: https://github.com/parthenon-hpc-lab/parthenon
[singularity-eos]: https://github.com/lanl/singularity-eos
[thornado]: https://github.com/endeve/thornado
[sordine]: https://github.com/astrobarker/sistrum
[mplcolors]: https://github.com/astrobarker/mplcolors
[kokkos]: https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos

* * *

## Outreach

Throughout my career I have worked to maintain an involvement in my community. 
This has made for some of the most enriching moments of my education. 
Find out about the [outreach initiatives][outreach] I have been involved in!

* * *

## Elsewhere

A few other corners of the Internet where you can find me include:

+ code on <a class = "dir" href="https://github.com/astrobarker">github</a>
+ posts on <a class = "dir" href = "https://twitter.com/astrobarker">twitter</a>
  and on <a class = "dir" href = "https://bsky.app/profile/astrobarker.bsky.social">Bluesky</a>
+ professionally can be found on <a class = "dir" href = "https://www.linkedin.com/in/brandon-barker-551426116/">LinkedIn</a>

### Contact

+ e-mail:<!--  barker (AT) lanl (DOT) gov or --> `barker (AT) lanl (DOT) gov`

* * *
